* Tyrant was a creation of man, not the gods
* The realm was arrogant to assume they could create such a powerful being and control it, while the realm itself was weak and careless, getting fat on their golden thrones.
* The Arcane Legion was made by forcing the wizards to join by taking their loved ones hostage, like Villains wife.
* The entire Legion had to take blood of the Tyrant to give them enough power to create the Veil.
* When Villain took the blood, she realized the true potential of the denizens of Aedon, and what they should be able to achieve when challenged.
* Blood eventually caused a lot of problems in the Legion, who would go insane, get deathly ill, or other nasty stuff.
* When Villain returned to wife, she was deathly ill from disease caught in captivity.
* After wife died, she swore to take revenge and part the Great Veil, and would never let Aedon be complacent again.

I was there when the Tyrant was defeated, and I was part of the Arcane Legion who cast the Great Veil to protect Aedon. Protect.. what a feeble concept. Do you think the Tyrant was sent by the Gods to punish us all? That was just the lie they told us, and we accepted it because we could not deny our sinful complacency. That was a lie they could not hide from the people they took from their loved ones to fight it. The Tyrant was a product of man, an ultimate weapon designed to give its masters the power to control the entire realm through sheer divine force. But the realm was weak at the time, and so were its creators. They were unable to stop the Tyrant from growing an army of dragons under its control. It took the realm the destruction of city after city, human and elven and orcish alike, to find the power to fight it. Their plan was sound: Lure the Tyrant and its brood to a favorable combat position and defeat it with its own power. The champions of Astor's Seat all took dragon's blood, which would make them stronger and more powerful, at the cost of their sanity and eventually their lives.
No, no creature was made to endure the blood of a dragon but a dragon itself. The same was true for the Legion, as I have experienced myself. I did not take the blood willingly. No, nothing would have made me take the blood of my own volition, and neither would most of my fellow legionnaires. The kings and queens knew that too, so they would force us to take it, one way or another. Many members were conscripted through force or fear of punishment. I did not care for either of that, so they took my wife. They took her because they lacked the power to win the fight on their own. They took her and would torture her until I would join the Legion and take the blood. And so I did. 
The power of dragon's blood is a wonderful thing, and I felt it take over my body and mind immediately. My spells were more powerful than ever before, and my mind was as clear as the icy lakes in the north. But nothing compared to taking the blood of the Tyrant itself. All of us took it to create the Veil, the most powerful enchantment ever created, by four score of the most powerful wizards in the realm infused with the blood of a God. And all of us felt the wrongness in the world, the weakness and sinfulness of it. I knew in that moment that power would come from adversity, as it did for us. 
After our victory, all that I wanted was to return to my wife and feel her loving embrace again, knowing that she was okay. Upon arriving back, they told me that she had fallen ill in their custody, and that she would not have long left to live. I tried everything in my power, went through all the knowledge that was now clear in my mind, but the Veil had weakened my magics, like I was bound by invisible chains. I tried giving her my own blood, but not even the life force of a god could save her anymore, and I held her in my arms when she drew her last breath. From then on I swore to myself to never let something like this happen again, to make the realm powerful and fearful and strong.
The realm would have been at war after the defeat of the Tyrant, if not for the fact that there was not much of it left. The people were too busy gathering the scraps of their old lives and eventually forgot the sin of man. But I never forgot, and neither did my legionnaires. I found a number of them who shared similar fates as me, and we knew that the Veil was a mistake, an affront to the gods. And so we travelled and looked for a way to part the Veil. Eventually, the leaders of the realm found out about our plans, and we were persecuted for it. What follows was a hunt for wizards who supposedly had gone mad from the blood and the alienation of my people from the realm. In my exile, I came to realize that the power of the Veil was in the blood of the Tyrant that was left in all of us. So I killed my remaining companions and took their blood onto myself, and I felt myself become more powerful, and feel younger again. I knew that I would have to find hundreds of legionnaires in hiding, and their children who were scattered throughout the world. While the blood kept me alive, I hunted down every single one of them, or had others do it for me. When you saw me in Smallwood, I killed the last descendant of the Legion, destroying the Veil and giving me the power of the Tyrant.

Then she explains how she is merely a vessel for its resurrection, and creates the zombie Tyrant which the players have to fight.
